[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure
we're with Richard Doty,
a retired Special Agent
who served in the
Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately involved
with UFO related intelligence.
Today we are discussing
the Gate 3 incident.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD C. DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be on.
>>EMERY: So tell us, what
is the Gate 3 incident?
>>C. DOTY: Well,
Emery, this is probably
one of the most at one
point classified stories
or incidents that ever
happened out of Area 51.
It beats all the other cases of
an extraterrestrial escaping,
because there was
a lot of aspects
to this particular
incident involving
a lot of different people.
And some of them have
talked over the years.
But it starts with the
fact that-- go back
in history a little
bit, we have captured
extraterrestrial creatures
or beings or entities
over the years from
the gift, I would say,
that were given by EBE1 in
1947 to the entities that
were found inside the
Kingman crash in 1953,
and then some others after that.
And we had to create
a facility for them.
Most of them at that time
period were stored at Los Alamos
because there were
facilities at Los Alamos that
were built after the EBE1 was
there and the Kingman crash.
The five that they
got out of that.
So there were some facilities
at Los Alamos that were created.
And over the years,
they realized
if they did have any kind of
conflict with extraterrestrials,
we, the US government, we had
to be able to put them in a jail
just like we would if we had
a war with the Soviet Union,
we had to put their soldiers or
captured or POWs in a facility.
So smart people
figured out that you're
going to have to make
these facilities.
So they did.
>>EMERY: They made it
a little different.
>>C. DOTY: Yeah, a
little different.
But they made them at S2
Annex North of Papoose Lake,
and they built a facility.
And some of these entities that
we captured or are obtained
required special
living conditions,
a special environment,
atmospheres, and so forth.
And so they built this facility.
It was supposed to
be escape proof.
But again, we don't know.
We didn't know everything
about these extraterrestrials.
>>EMERY: The full capabilities
of an unknown species.
>>C. DOTY: Exactly.
We didn't know
what they could do.
We didn't know if they
had supernatural powers.
So we had to build the best
facility that we could.
And we did that at--
as it took a number of
years to build them.
And so they had a number of what
they call containment facilities
there at S2.
>>EMERY: And these
were underground?
>>C. DOTY: Yeah, they
were all underground.
They had vents and they had
all these sophisticated tanks
of different types
of atmospheres.
They even had some that had
a lesser gravity than earth,
because these things that lived
on a planet that didn't have
its higher gravity as we did.
Some had oxygen suppressors
because our oxygen--
we talked about
this in an episode.
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>C. DOTY: The
oxygen level was--
ours is too rich for them.
And these requirements, and plus
food and nourishment and all
sorts of things that
they had to worry about.
>>EMERY: And also the
materials to make those
were different for
different species,
like some were
organic materials,
some they wouldn't
use metal with.
I guess there was also
problems with psionics,
making sure they couldn't
think out of the box, if you
know what I mean.
No pun intended.
Did you hear
anything about that?
>>C. DOTY: Yeah, you answered
all my questions for me
because that's exactly--
obviously you know
something about it
because that's
what they require,
because some entities were
able to bypass something
or it was harmful to them.
Metal box, so to speak.
So they had to-- they had
to figure out and adjust
to different needs of
these extraterrestrials.
Now, I wasn't fully
briefed on every aspect
of extraterrestrials.
So I'm sure, I'm thinking you
probably know a little bit more
about what their
needs were than I do.
But these facilities were there.
And at the time, in the 1980s,
when the Gate 3 incident
happened, we had these
entities in captivity.
>>EMERY: Please tell me more
about what kind of visitors
that you would believe that
they would be holding there,
and of course, we got to talk
about this one that got away.
>>C. DOTY: Well, they
had different species.
At that time, we knew of five.
>>EMERY: What kind of
visitor are we talking about?
>>C. DOTY: We're talking
about the Quataloid.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>C. DOTY: That's the insect
praying mantis type looking.
About 6 foot-- could
be up to 6 foot tall.
They were the dangerous ones.
And they're the ones,
as I understand,
that we didn't know
a whole lot about.
But we acquired this
one, particular one,
from a crash site and it
actually harmed a human.
So we were very careful
of how we captured it
and how we stored it at the
containment facility S2 Annex.
>>EMERY: Rick, are there
different species of Quataloids?
>>C. DOTY: Yeah, because
they're genetically engineered
and we know that much.
So there are other
species and they also
can appear different to humans.
They make themselves appear in
a particular manner to a human
and would probably just
scare them, I would guess.
But we know that one
particular incident
where one harmed
a human being, we
felt that at that point that
these things were not friendly,
they were not
benevolent, and therefore
that's why we had to
keep it in captivity.
And not really sure how
long it had been there.
That's one question
that was never
answered when this
story was told
to me by Gene Laskowski, who
was, in fact, one of the ones
that was there.
I don't know that he knew
how long it would been there,
but the facility
housing these things
had been there probably
seven to 10 years.
So it probably during that
time period we obtained it.
>>EMERY: Why are they here?
Are they here on--
for peace?
What are they-- do
they have an agenda?
>>C. DOTY: I wish we knew.
I don't know that we knew
why the craft crashed.
I know that the craft
contained two others.
There were three of
them, and two died.
And this one lived.
And it also had the ability to
heal itself, I remember that.
But I don't know much other
reason why they came here.
Their craft was one
of the bigger crafts
that we had obtained, and it
crashed in the Nevada Desert.
And that's about all we knew.
And I don't, again,
I don't know how long
it had been in captivity.
>>EMERY: So are they
concerning to us in any way?
>>C. DOTY: Yes, because
they're hostile.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>C. DOTY: And they've
already injured humans.
>>EMERY: Elaborate that
incident that happened.
Maybe it was hurt and
it just fought back.
>>C. DOTY: Well, at the
time the craft crashed,
the recovery team, the STAR team
had formed at that time period,
and they were there
to recover it.
And there was also a local
law enforcement officer there.
The local law
enforcement officer
who had absolutely no
knowledge of any species
of extraterrestrial
visiting Earth
was the one that was harmed.
Now, I'm not sure exactly
the details in that,
but the other STAR team
were able to neutralize
the Quataloid.
So we knew it was hostile.
But if you've put yourself
in their position,
the craft crashed for
some unknown reason.
Two of their comrades are
dead and now you're alive.
And these humans are trying
to get in this craft.
I mean, a defense mechanism
might have reacted
with this Quataloid or what--
I don't know, we
can guess, but--
>>EMERY: Well, that's
what I'm getting at,
is how can they just based
off that one incident,
say these Quataloids
are dangerous?
They're disrespecting
the human race here.
They're attacking us.
It seems like there's
more to that story
that we just don't know.
>>C. DOTY: Well, the
more to the story
is that we were able
to disable it some way.
I don't know how and transport
it to a containment facility
and store it in a
container, basically.
Now, I would be
upset if that was me,
if I went to another
planet as an astronaut
and I get captured and struck
and then thrown in a container.
I mean, yeah.
So we don't know how they think.
But this leads up
to why they buy it--
>>EMERY: So this is the one.
So let's go ahead
and get into that.
Why did it escape and how?
>>C. DOTY: It was able to
open a underground vault door.
I don't know that they ever
figured out how it opened it.
And then it had to navigate
a smaller tunnel system
to get up to the surface.
And now this thing
was about 6 foot tall.
It had a large body mass.
It wasn't heavy, but it
was just structured larger.
It had this cape
on the back, so it
wasn't easy-- probably
easy for it to maneuver,
but it somehow it did.
It got up to the surface
and it just took off.
>>EMERY: Does it run like a
bipedal, like on a couple legs?
Or how?
>>C. DOTY: It runs--
it runs bipedal,
on two legs, yeah.
And it was able to escape.
And the alarm system that they
had inside the containment
facility was shut off.
Now, I don't know that it shut
it off or how it happened.
But they had an alarm,
but it didn't activate.
So this thing was out in the
open for some time period.
>>EMERY: How long was it
out there before they even
knew it had escaped?
>>C. DOTY: They had to do checks
every, I believe, two hours.
And I think, and it's
approximately two hours.
And when the people that were
in control of the containment
facility found that it wasn't
in its containment area,
they set the alarm off that.
Hey, this thing is not here.
So they went down under
and they couldn't find it.
And they realized
that it had escaped.
So now they set the alarm off.
Now, from that point,
there was two people
in a jeep traveling-- traveling
from one location, Groom Lake,
into another area.
And there was a Gate 3, it
used to be called Gate 3,
it's a different gate now.
But they're in a
jeep, a CJ-7 jeep.
And Gene Laskowski was
the driver and a passenger
was an OSI agent, a
counterintelligence officer
for the base.
It wasn't me, OK?
Everybody--
>>EMERY: You can tell us, Rick.
>>C. DOTY: When I tell this
story, I have to clarify,
this was not me.
But I knew who it was.
I've worked with him.
Anyways, they were coming back.
And they go through the gate.
Now, at that time, the Nellis
test and Training Range
had a civilian
security company called
Wackenhut that guarded
the perimeter of the base.
They also guarded the
entry control points.
The control area of
the base was guarded
by Air Force security police,
both there and at Tonopah.
But this particular gate was--
housed a Wackenhut
security guard.
Now, when the jeep with
Laskowski and the OSI agent
came out, originally,
they saw the guard there.
And the guard had
approved their pass
to get into this other area.
And they were in the other
area for several hours.
And they come back to
go back to Groom Lake,
and they come up to the gate.
At this point, they look over
and they don't see the guard.
>>EMERY: Uh-oh.
>>C. DOTY: Guard is missing.
And so they're
looking and looking
and the assistant sees
this splatter mark.
And the gate-- the
glass of the gate.
So he gets out.
Now, at this point
Laskowski has a handgun.
He's chief of security.
The OSI agent has a handgun.
And back in those days, we
carried 45s, modified 45s.
They were specially
made for OSI agents.
So the OSI agent walks up
and doesn't see the guard.
But as he goes in
the gate, he sees.
What's left of a
human, human remains.
And so he realizes something
obviously happened.
So he runs back.
He gets on his radio.
And he had a portable radio.
And I remember what they were.
MX500 Motorola's.
And he immediately
notified his people.
The OSI agent tells Gene.
Hey, Gene, this guy
has just got massacred.
Something hit him or
something destroyed him.
And so Gene has a radio
telephone in his jeep
and he calls his command.
Now, and Gene calls and said,
we need to get help out here.
And OSI agent said, same thing.
And so they're looking around.
The OSI agent-- there's a
culvert with a canal that
runs up across the
road from the gate
and it's for irrigation or
something, I'm not sure.
So the OSI agent goes
down there to look and see
if this thing was down there,
and lo and behold, he sees it.
>>EMERY: Oh, my goodness.
>>C. DOTY: Now, he confronts it.
And again, he only has a 45
with seven shots in it, OK?
>>EMERY: All right.
>>C. DOTY: And--
>>EMERY: That's what
you mean by confront?
He just was there
with his weapon?
>>C. DOTY: He pulls
his weapon out,
he confronts it
and starts yelling
at it because the
OSI agent number
one doesn't know what it is.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>C. DOTY: He has no
knowledge of this creature.
He's never been briefed
into the subject of species.
There's certain
programs, MedStar Program
and RLab program,
all these things
dealt with the creatures
and the entities there.
>>EMERY: So this OSI
agent, not to cut you off,
is basically the first time
he's ever seen this creature.
>>C. DOTY: The first time he's
ever seen a creature, anything,
any species.
And in fact, he didn't even
know that Groom Lake had
him or Papoose Lake, S2
Annex had these things.
And I don't even think he
even knew S2 Annex existed.
Now, Gene knew
that they had him.
They had these
extraterrestrials because he
was chief of security.
But the OSI agent did not know.
So when the OSI agent
went down to look,
and he's expecting a
human did this somehow
with maybe a ray gun or
something, but as he goes down,
he sees this.
An entity stand up.
And these Quataloids, when
they are in danger or when
they try to scare a human, their
head enlarges and their cape
opens.
So he's thinking he's looking
at some kind of a praying mantis
that's huge.
And I've talked to him
years later and he says,
this is a Nevada test site.
They tested nuclear weapons.
There could be some strange
mutations that occurred out
here, which they did.
There were.
And that's what he's
thinking he's looking at.
And he's yelling at it.
And I we always joke about this.
Well, not always, but
when I talk to him.
I said, did you expect
this thing to answer back?
He said, hey, I'm trained to
challenge it before I shoot.
I did what I--
>>EMERY: So what was he saying?
Like, get out of there?
Or what was he saying?
>>C. DOTY: Get out of there!
Yeah, get out of there!
Keep your hands in the air!
Typical challenge that a law
enforcement person would do.
And it didn't do it.
It came at him and he
fired his 45 at him,
hitting the creature
in the chest.
The creature fell down.
He thought that the creature--
he killed the creature.
Well, at that time,
Gene is behind him.
Now, Gene has a 38
model, 1938, six shot.
Same thing the security
police carried.
He never fired.
But Gene, says get back, get
back, get back to the OSI agent.
And the OSI agent says,
what the heck is that?
He says, it's an
extraterrestrial creature
that's contained here.
And it must have escaped.
And the fumes, when
it dies, is harmful.
So they all got back
up towards the gate.
And some time later, other
security police and security
force people arrived on scene,
and also the containment unit.
They had a containment team
that can contain this thing.
So they were able to
contain this thing,
put it in a container.
And it wasn't dead, and
then transported it back
to the containment center.
And now the
investigation starts.
They had to bring in the
FBI because he's a civilian.
The guard was a civilian.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>C. DOTY: Now we have the
FBI, an outside agency,
involved in this highly
classified investigation.
>>EMERY: Well, that's not good.
They couldn't sweep that
under the rug that one, huh?
>>C. DOTY: They
couldn't sweep it
because they notified
everybody and your uncle.
>>EMERY: Oh, OK.
Now, you mentioned this cape
that he was wearing, or was it
part of his body,
his segmented body?
>>C. DOTY: That was
part of his body.
That's part of the body.
It's--
>>EMERY: Like wings?
>>C. DOTY: It's like wings.
It's contained in
the back of its neck.
>>EMERY: Mm-hmm.
>>C. DOTY: And remember,
it's a praying mantis
type looking entity.
And its head can also enlarge.
And the cape is behind.
And they sometimes hide in it--
hide in it.
I was told that when they
first captured this one
and put it in there, it would
put the cape over it and hide.
And it was probably used
to scare or frighten.
Now they have to investigate it.
>>EMERY: Yeah.
>>C. DOTY: Now, this human being
was virtually disintegrated,
the guard.
And so how did this
entity, being do that?
This is what really,
really, really scared
everybody there because
they didn't know that it
had a capability of doing that.
They knew it had a
capability of clawing a human
and harming him
with its strength.
>>EMERY: I was going to ask you,
like, a mantis has those really
razor sharp claws on it.
Also, this creature have this?
>>C. DOTY: Well, they
thought that at first,
but when they took
it back and they,
I guess, they put it to sleep,
anesthetized it or something,
to search it, they
found these glands.
And these glands
had acid in them.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>C. DOTY: And they didn't
know that these glands--
they didn't even know.
And they had this thing
for some time, years.
But they didn't know
that the anatomy of it,
inside of its claws
had this acid.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>C. DOTY: And what they found
because they took these things
out, and this acid,
they call it an acid,
it's some kind of a
chemical, was the same
as inside that gate shack.
>>EMERY: What was the
color of the Quataloid.
>>C. DOTY: It's a dark brown.
>>EMERY: Dark brown?
>>C. DOTY: Dark brown colored.
>>EMERY: How are the eyes?
Big, oval?
>>C. DOTY: Very, very big.
Very sophisticated.
Has a number of lenses, lids.
It could-- they actually think
it could see through things.
>>EMERY: What were the next
steps after this very horrible
encounter with the Quataloid.
>>C. DOTY: Well,
this is where it
gets somewhat
difficult to talk about
because they went back and did
a lot of different experiments
and tests on this Quataloid.
We were able to put it to
sleep somewhat with some gas--
gas or some method, to put
it to sleep, to examine it,
Because once they
found the chemical that
dissolved human skin, now
they're really, really worried.
And they thought, well,
if we took this gland out,
do they grow another one?
Or--
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>C. DOTY: How can
we prevent this thing
from harming any humans again?
So what they decided--
I guess this went
all the way up.
What they decided to do was
neutralize it or terminate it.
>>EMERY: How unfortunate.
>>C. DOTY: Yeah, how
unfortunate because apparently
we only had one of
them at that time.
And it was providing us with a
lot of medical research and bio
research on what other species
throughout the universe
looks like or acts like.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>C. DOTY: ANd what they're
made of and whether they have--
eventually I'm sure they
would have tested the DNA.
But back in those days, although
they knew that there was DNA,
but they weren't
able to test it.
>>EMERY: So it shows
you how frightened
the team was to not allow
this creature to live because
of its unpredictability
and our unawareness of what
it's capable of.
>>C. DOTY: Exactly.
And you stop and think of how
rash that was for us to do
or how difficult that--
but what else were
we going to do?
You know, one of the
questions I had was,
why couldn't you put it
back in its spaceship
and send it off planet?
>>EMERY: Wow.
Did you ask that?
>>C. DOTY: Yeah, I
asked that question.
And the person telling me
this story, Gene Laskowski,
said, do you actually
think we would
trust them to fly that
spacecraft back to his planet
when we've just
done this to them?
What if there was
some horrible weapon
system they had on that craft
that we haven't found yet?
>>EMERY: We had the craft.
>>C. DOTY: Yeah,
we have the craft,
but we don't know its
full capability because we
haven't reverse engineered it.
So you imagine us just putting
them in the craft and saying,
get back to your planet?
And we haven't been able to
communicate fully with it.
So there wasn't any other
choice but to neutralize it.
And they never said kill it.
They said neutralize it.
>>EMERY: Are you
aware of any time
that we had a
Quataloid in captivity
or any other extraterrestrial
that these other beings
from the same race came
to try to help it escape?
>>C. DOTY: There have been
stories of that happening,
not necessarily the
Quataloid, but there
have been others' stories.
I don't know the full
details, but there
have been others
that came and got
and captured or released
or freed their own.
One particular case in the old--
the former Soviet Union
that this happened.
And we talked about that
in one of these episodes
a long time ago.
So yeah, there have
been cases, but I
don't know of any
relating to the Quataloid.
>>EMERY: OK.
So where do you think
this incident taught us,
and how does that change
what we do in the future
when we capture these
extraterrestrials?
>>C. DOTY: Well, Gene said
that they did, obviously,
the after action report that a
team came in from headquarters,
did a full investigation,
developed new policies
and procedures for the
containment facility,
modernized the
and then set procedures
on if we were going
to bring a species in
the containment facility,
we're going to have to
know a lot about them
to make sure that they
can be properly cared for
and not escape.
And every communications
effort possible
must be made to try to get
through them, to inform them
that we're not
going to harm them.
>>EMERY: I'm sure security
checks are not going to be just
every two hours moving forward.
>>C. DOTY: No.
I think they've created a new
system with closed circuit
cameras.
>>EMERY: Rick, do you know
our current relationship
with Quataloids?
>>C. DOTY: No.
Well, I know there's
others here now,
but I don't know the
full story about what
our relationship is with them.
>>EMERY: You mentioned these
down craft and the dark teams
come.
We seem to be pretty aggressive
from what you told us.
Is there any way
moving forward that you
think we wouldn't be so
aggressive to these beings?
>>C. DOTY: Yeah, I
think now the STAR team
has modernized its approach.
They have psychologists
and clairvoyant people,
paranormal people
who immediately
will try to communicate in a
different way other than vocal.
So we have learned
our lesson and we
do have some different
specialties on the STAR team
nowadays.
>>EMERY: So in regards to
the Quataloids as a species,
there's so many different kinds
of these Quataloids and races.
What's your take
on the Quataloids
as far as are they
good, are they bad?
Through your
experience, you just
mentioned this negative
history of what just happened,
but have you heard of
anything that was positive?
>>C. DOTY: First of all, a
Quataloid is an insectoid, OK?
But we can't categorize
all Quataloids
with being malevolent.
They might not be.
There are so many other
species that are not dangerous.
Some of them are actually very,
very benevolent to humans.
And so we can't categorize
just this one incident
as being so negative
against all insectoids.
>>EMERY: Well, thank
you so much, Rick,
for being on the show.
That was always a
fascinating story you told,
and I appreciate you being here.
>>C. DOTY: Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]